“To conclude, therefore, let no man out of a weak conceit of sobriety,
or an ill-applied moderation, think or maintain, that a man can search
too far or be too well studied in the book of God’s word, or in the
book of God’s works; divinity or philosophy; but rather let men
endeavour an endless progress or proficience in both.”

BACON: _Advancement of Learning_.

AN HISTORICAL SKETCH OF THE PROGRESS OF OPINION ON THE ORIGIN OF
SPECIES, PREVIOUSLY TO THE PUBLICATION OF THE FIRST EDITION OF THIS
WORK.

I will here give a brief sketch of the progress of opinion on the
Origin of Species. Until recently the great majority of naturalists
believed that species were immutable productions, and had been
separately created. This view has been ably maintained by many authors.
Some few naturalists, on the other hand, have believed that species
undergo modification, and that the existing forms of life are the
descendants by true generation of pre existing forms. Passing over
allusions to the subject in the classical writers,[1] the first author
who in modern times has treated it in a scientific spirit was Buffon.
But as his opinions fluctuated greatly at different periods, and as he
does not enter on the causes or means of the transformation of species,
I need not here enter on details.

[1] Aristotle, in his “Physicæ Auscultationes” (lib.2, cap.8, s.2),
 after remarking that rain does not fall in order to make the corn
 grow, any more than it falls to spoil the farmer’s corn when threshed
 out of doors, applies the same argument to organisation; and adds (as
 translated by Mr. Clair Grece, who first pointed out the passage to
 me), “So what hinders the different parts (of the body) from having
 this merely accidental relation in nature? as the teeth, for example,
 grow by necessity, the front ones sharp, adapted for dividing, and the
 grinders flat, and serviceable for masticating the food; since they
 were not made for the sake of this, but it was the result of accident.
 And in like manner as to other parts in which there appears to exist
 an adaptation to an end. Wheresoever, therefore, all things together
 (that is all the parts of one whole) happened like as if they were
 made for the sake of something, these were preserved, having been
 appropriately constituted by an internal spontaneity; and whatsoever
 things were not thus constituted, perished and still perish.” We here
 see the principle of natural selection shadowed forth, but how little
 Aristotle fully comprehended the principle, is shown by his remarks on
 the formation of the teeth.