Help me brainstorm a web based game I came up with. I call it wizard fight. Two players are wizards in a tower and each starts with some amount of health and mana. Each player has 1 spell "summon flying monkey" this will create a monkey that flys towards the other player and will attack the wizard if it reaches otherwise the monkeys will just clash in the middle. The cool part is that wizards have an input box that says "study spells about:" then they can type in whatever they want and an LLM will come up with a balanced game description of the spell. Then another LLM will implement the code for that spell and after they're done the wizards can use the spell. They can also upgrade spells with a similar flow. What do you think?

Core idea is strong. The LLM-as-magic-research metaphor fits wizards perfectly and justifies generative mechanics instead of fixed spell lists.

Key thoughts, grouped.

What works

Diegetic AI: “Study spells about:” maps cleanly to wizard research. Players already expect vague, poetic inputs.

Asymmetric creativity: Each match can diverge wildly based on what players invent.

Monkey baseline: A single guaranteed spell anchors the game and prevents total chaos.

Spectator value: Watching spells get invented mid-match is inherently entertaining.

Big risks (and how to tame them)

Balance explosion

Solution: hard constraints enforced before codegen:

Bounded mana cost

Bounded DPS / HP / duration

No direct player input reading

No permanent global effects

Think “spell budget points” that the LLM must spend.

Code safety

Never let the LLM write arbitrary JS.

Instead:

LLM outputs a spell spec DSL (JSON).

Engine interprets it.

Example primitives:

spawn_unit(type, hp, speed)

deal_damage(amount, target)

apply_status(type, duration)

Latency

Spell research must be async.

Wizards are vulnerable while studying.

This turns waiting into gameplay.

Prompt cheesing

Players will try “instantly kill enemy wizard”.

Counter with:

“Academic realism” tone: spells emerge flawed, niche, or indirect.

LLM instructed to prefer interesting over optimal.

Design ideas to deepen it

Tower geography

Multiple lanes

Verticality (flying vs ground)

Environmental spells (fog, wind, gravity)

Spell schools (emergent, not fixed)

If a player keeps studying “fire”, future fire spells get cheaper or more volatile.

Soft specialization without explicit classes.

Monkey synergy

Spells can modify monkeys:

flaming monkeys

illusionary monkeys

cowardly monkeys that retreat

Keeps the base unit relevant all game.

Upgrades as mutations

Upgrading doesn’t strictly improve.

It changes behavior:

Faster but fragile

Smarter targeting but higher mana

Misfires

New spells have a small chance to backfire until upgraded.

Encourages iterative refinement.

LLM pipeline suggestion

Player input (free text)

LLM #1 → Spell design doc

Theme

Intended use

Strengths / weaknesses

Deterministic validator clamps values

LLM #2 → DSL spec only

Engine executes spec

Players can see steps 2–3 for transparency and humor.

Win conditions beyond HP

Mana exhaustion

Tower collapse from accumulated effects

Summon overload (too many entities destabilize reality)

Overall verdict

This is a genuinely novel use of LLMs that:

Enhances gameplay instead of replacing it

Turns limitations (latency, constraints) into mechanics

Encourages creativity over optimization

If you keep the engine deterministic and the LLMs constrained, this could be both fun and shippable.
